Add pos poa explanations (#1774)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/understand-blockchain/consensus/pos-poa.adoc

As soon as a validator is banned, they are excluded from the validator weight snapshots used for the validator list computation.
The ban is permanent, but the validator account holder can move their funds to a different account and register a new validator.

== PoA

PoA is an alternative consensus mechanism to PoS in the Lisk SDK.
In {url_blog_poa}[Proof-of-Authority (PoA)^] blockchains, only a pre-defined set of validators, called the *authorities*, can propose blocks.
Authorities are selected based on off-chain information such as their reputation or identity.

PoA trades the decentralization of the network (arbitrarily selected authorities) for efficiency and performance.
This mechanism was first proposed by {url_github_poa}[Gavin Wood in 2015^].

The security of PoA relies on the staked reputation of the block generators instead of the staked tokens of the block generators and their voters.
A PoA blockchain is especially attractive for small projects or blockchain apps where the project owners are expected to run the network nodes.

> Additionally, PoA is suitable for blockchains where the expected staked capital in the case of PoS would not provide enough security, but staking the reputations of the active authorities would do so.

Author: Goodpoint, I have added a new section at the bottom

== PoS

In Proof-of-Stake (PoS) blockchains validators stake tokens to increase their weight in the network.
The higher the stake of a validator, the higher is the probablity to reach a spot und the active validators, who are allowed to generate new blocks in the network.

The highest stakeholders are expected to have a high motivation to keep the network secure and healthy, as users with the highest amount of tokens or coins have the most to lose if something goes wrong in the network.
Subsequently, it is in their interest to ensure the network continues to grow.
Therefore, the PoS algorithm favors users with high amounts of tokens and provides them with a much higher chance of being selected as the next validator, as compared to users with a smaller stake of tokens.

The PoS consensus algorithm provides higher decentralization than <<poa>>, and a much lower computation effort than PoW (Proof of Work), and provides therefore a good middleground between decentralization an scalability.

At the same time, the maintanance effort of PoS blockchains is significantly higher than for PoA blockchains, making it more suitable for middle-sized and big projects.

=== Validator selection

> Blocks in the Lisk PoS protocol are grouped together into batches of 103 consecutive blocks, which are referred to as a *block generation round*.

Author: I think we called it "forging round" before, just "round" sounds a bit too general for me. But if it is official(aligned) terminology, then I can change it

> Blocks in the Lisk PoS protocol are grouped together into batches of 103 consecutive blocks, which are referred to as a *block generation round*.

Reviewer: I have confirmed with Greg, round is the official term.

=== Validator selection

Blocks in the Lisk PoS protocol are grouped together into batches of 103 consecutive blocks, which are referred to as a *round*.

A *validator* is any account that successfully submitted a Register Validator transaction.

TIP: For more info on how to become a validator, check out the corresponding guide: xref:{url_run_validator}[]

Every round, a new *validator list* is generated, which is an ordered list of 103 validators who are allowed to generate a block in that round.
The order of the validators in the list is completely random.

The top 101 validators with the most <<validator-weight>> are also called *active validators*.
To become an active validator, a validator needs to increase their validator weight, until they are among the top 101 validators with the most validator weight.

The remaining 2 validator spots in each round are given to two randomly selected *standby validators*.

Starting with the first validator on the validator list, every validator has a *10 second block slot window* in which they can generate a block and broadcast it to the network.

[NOTE]
====

> If every validator on the list manages to generate a block in their block slot building on the block by the previous validator, a round lasts 1030 seconds (around 17 minutes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If every validator on the list manages to generate a block in their block slot building on the block by the previous validator, a round lasts 1,030 seconds (around 17 minutes).
```

It also allows stakers to earn rewards as a lot of validators reward stakers with a share of their block rewards.
This creates a financial incentive for users to stake their unused tokens and receive regular payouts as a reward.

TIP: For more info on how to stake tokens, check out the corresponding guide: xref:{url_run_staking}[]

==== Validator weight

Every validator has an associated *validator weight*.
A high validator weight will put a validator in an active position to generate new blocks for the blockchain.

IMPORTANT: The *minimum validator weight required* to be selected as a block generator is 1000 LSK in the Lisk Mainnet.

Formally, the validator weight is defined as the following:

.Formula for calculating the validator weight
----
validatorWeight = minimum { 10 * selfStake , totalStakeReceived },
----

* `selfStake` is the number of tokens the validator staked for themselves.
* `totalStakeReceived` is the sum of all staked tokens (including self-stakes) for a specific validator.

NOTE: This definition implies that *at least 10% of the validator weight always consists of self-stakes*{fn_weight}.

=== How the validator list is generated

> The validator list for a round is assigning a block generation position for each validator eligible to generate a block in the round.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The validator list for a round assigns a block generation position for each validator eligible to generate a block in the round.
```

Each active validator and the selected 2 random standby validators get exactly one spot on the validator list.
Validators get a new random position on the list for each round.

The list is generated as follows:

. Compute two values `randomSeed1` and `randomSeed2` from the values provided by the validators in the `seedReveal` property of the block headers of the previous 3 rounds.
. Add the 101 active validators to the list.
Moreover, add 2 standby validators to the list using a random selection proportional to validator weight.
The random selection utilizes `randomSeed1` and `randomSeed2`, respectively.
The computation of 101 active validators as well as the standby validator selection is based on the validator weights from two rounds before.
. Shuffle the list using `randomSeed1`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add an appropriate caption for the image.

Authorities are selected based on off-chain information such as their reputation or identity.

PoA trades the decentralization of the network (arbitrarily selected authorities) for efficiency and performance.
This mechanism was first proposed by {url_github_poa}[Gavin Wood in 2015^].

The security of PoA relies on the staked reputation of the block generators instead of the staked tokens of the block generators and their voters.
A PoA blockchain is especially attractive for small projects or blockchain apps where the project owners are expected to run the network nodes.
Additionally, PoA is suitable for blockchains where the expected staked capital in the case of PoS would not provide enough security, but staking the reputations of the active authorities would do so.
Due to the simplicity of its validator selection algorithm, it is also suitable for applications where a high transaction per second throughput is important.

=== How to update the list of active authorities

Only active authorities can update the list of active authorities.

The following values can be updated:

> . Remove/Add authorities (the length of the list of authorities can change as a result)
> . Change BFT weight of authorities
> . Update threshold for finality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Remove/Add authorities (the length of the list of authorities can change as a result).
. Change the BFT weight of authorities.
. Update threshold for finality.
```

NOTE: The maximum amount of authorities for a chain is 199.

The PoA module, which must be used by PoA blockchains built with the Lisk SDK version 6, implements the following commands which facilitate the authority updates:

* *Authority Registration Command*: This command is similar to the validator registration command in Lisk PoS.
An account willing to become an active authority must first send an authority registration transaction.
The registration fee for an authority registration can be defined in the PoA module configuration.
* *Update Authority Command*: This command updates the set of active authorities as mentioned above.
An update authority transaction must contain the following parameters:
+
. `newValidators`: The updated list of authorities and their associated BFT weights.
. `threshold`: The finality threshold.
. `validatorsUpdateNonce`: Increments +1 for each executed Update Authority transaction.

> . an _aggregate multi-signature_ whereby enough active authorities have contributed to, such that the sum of the corresponding BFT weights meets the finality threshold.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. An _aggregate multi-signature_ whereby enough active authorities have contributed to, such that the sum of the corresponding BFT weights meets the finality threshold.
```
